# Outernet software documentation

This repository contains public documentation for
[Outernet](https://www.outernet.is/) software components.

Each subdirectory in this repository represents a software components. 

## File naming convention

The naming convention for all documents is:

    component_name-[subcomponent_name-]status[-version].mkd

The component name is a lower-cased version of the name of the directory in
which the document is located. If the document describes only one part of the
component, it may include the subcomponent name in the file name. The status is
an accronym of the document status.

Documents with version number must be suffixed by the version number.

## Document format

All documents must be in Markdown format and must be single-page.

## Document status codes

The document status codes are as follows:

 - ECR - early community review
 - FCR - final community review
 - FDR - final draft waiting for final approval
 - SPC - accepted specification

### ECR - early community review

This document is incomplete, early, draft that is presented to the community
for early discussions and brainstorming. All sections of the document are open
to discussion.

### FCR - final community review

This document is a complete draft which is presented to the community on FYI
basis. Some sections of the draft may not be open to discussion.

### FDR - final draft

This draft is no longer open to suggestions. It is under technical review and
waiting for final approval by the project members. Documents must have a
version number before they can be declared FDR and the version number must not
be in use by a previous SPC document.

### SPC - accepted specification

This version of the document is accepted by the project staff and may not be
modified. Any changes require a new version to be drafted. Documents must have
a version number before they can be declared SPC.

## License

All documents are dual-licensed under GFDL and CC-BY-SA.

Copyright (c)  2014 Outernet Project <https://www.outernet.is/> 
Some rights reserved.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the
terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version
published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no
Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts. A copy of the license is included
in the GFDL file. 

Alternatively, CC-BY-SA 2.0 may be used. Copy of the Creative Commons Unported
license can be found in CCBYSA file.




